[Music]
hmm
every year we herald the coming of
christmas by turning on the lights
and light does more than create a
festive mood
light brings hope for christians
jesus is the light of the world but we
can't celebrate his birth today
in quite the usual way people of
all faiths have been unable to gather as
they would wish
for their festivals such as passover
easter eid and visakhi
but we need life to go on last month
fireworks lit
up the sky around windsor as hindus
sikhs and jains celebrated diwali the
festival of lights
providing joyous moments of hope and
unity despite
social distancing remarkably a year that
has necessarily kept people apart
has in many ways brought us closer
across the commonwealth my family and i
have been inspired by stories of people
volunteering in their communities
helping those in need
in the united kingdom and around the
world
people have risen magnificently to the
challenges of the year
and i'm so proud and moved by this quiet
indomitable spirit
to our young people in particular i say
thank you for the part you have played
this year we celebrated international
nurses day on the 200th anniversary
of the birth of florence nightingale
as with other nursing pioneers like mary
seco
florence nightingale shone a lamp of
hope across the world
today our frontline services still shine
that lamp for us
supported by the amazing achievements of
modern science
and we owe them a debt of gratitude
we continue to be inspired by the
kindness of strangers
and draw comfort that even on the
darkest nights
there is hope in the new dawn
jesus touched on this with the parable
of the good samaritan
the man who is robbed and left at the
roadside
is saved by someone who did not share
his religion or culture
this wonderful story of kindness is
still as relevant today
good samaritans have emerged across
society
showing care and respect for all
regardless of gender race and background
reminding us that each one of us is
special
and equal in the eyes of god
the teachings of christ have served as
my inner light
as has the sense of purpose we can find
in coming together
to worship
in november we commemorated another hero
though nobody knows his name
the tomb of the unknown warrior isn't a
large memorial
but everyone entering westminster abbey
has to walk around his resting place
honoring this unnamed competent of the
first world war
a symbol of selfless duty and ultimate
sacrifice
the unknown warrior was not exceptional
that's the point
he represents millions like him who
throughout our history have put the
lives of
others above their own and will be doing
so today
for me this is a source of enduring hope
in difficult
and unpredictable times
of course for many this time of year
will be tinged with sadness
some mourning the loss of those dear to
them
and others missing friends and family
members
distance for safety when all they
really want for christmas is a simple
hug or a squeeze of the hand
if you are among them you are not alone
and let me assure you of my thoughts and
prayers
the bible tells how a star appeared in
the sky
its light guiding the shepherds and wise
men
to the scene of jesus's birth
let the light of christmas the spirit of
selflessness
love and above all hope guide
us in the times ahead
it is in that spirit that i wish you a
very happy christmas
[Music]
[Applause]
is
[Music]
heart
oh
[Music]
[Applause]
is
[Music]
you